Q 1. You are working with a Financial giant looking to adopt a public Cloud. The IT advisory group of the company has indicated the intent that they want cloud infrastructure to be solely operated for them and hosted internally.
Which of the below options is the right choice for the organisation?
Public Cloud
Private Cloud
Hybrid Cloud
Any of the above
Correct Answer: B

Option A is incorrect because the Public Cloud deployment model generally offers services to multiple customers unless opted explicitly for. Public Cloud is also not a correct choice because Public Cloud will not be hosted internally.
Option B is correct because the Private Cloud deployment model caters to the below requirements:
Solely operated for one customer
Hosted internally for the customer
Option C is incorrect as this option comprises the combination of both the Private and Public Cloud.
Option D is incorrect as Public Cloud and Hybrid one are not a suitable choice.
Q 2. You are a Senior Project Manager working on a Request for Proposal (RFP). Architects have completed the high-level architecture of the proposed solution. In addition, this proposed solution includes a section that details how the implementation will ensure that the client application and data will be available in case of unavailability of a particular data center.
How will you put this section in your RFP?

Highlight this as a “Business Continuity Plan.”
Highlight this as “Proactive Monitoring.”
Highlight this as a “Continuous Improvement Plan.”
Highlight this as an “Automation” section.
Correct Answer: A

Option A is correct. As this part of the solution details how the application and data will be available in case of unavailability of a particular data center, we will need to highlight this as a Business Continuity Plan.
Option B is incorrect. Proactive monitoring is the continuous monitoring of various alerts and monitoring application behavior to identify any potential problem. In the given scenario, the solution discusses ensuring business continuity in case of a particular data center unavailability.
Option C is incorrect. The Continuous Improvement Plan details efforts to improve ongoing services that are being provided.
Option D is incorrect. Automation plan details the plans of automation to be implemented and not on Business continuity.
Q 3.  Which of the below is a Google Cloud PaaS product offering?
Google Workspace
Google App Engine
Google Compute Engine
Persistent Disk
Correct Answer: B

Option A is incorrect. Google Workspace is a SaaS offering.
Option B is correct. Google App Engine is a PaaS offering.
Option C is incorrect. Google Compute Engine is an IaaS offering.
Option D is incorrect. Persistent Disk is an IaaS offering.
Q 4. Which Cloud Computing models require customers to own Operating System patching?
IaaS (Infrastructure as a Service)
PaaS (Platform as a Service)
SaaS (Software as a Service)
FSaaS (FileSystem as a Service)
Correct Answer: A

Option A is correct. The IaaS model requires customers to own the patching of the servers.
Option B is incorrect. Cloud provider is responsible for patching the Operating System for their PaaS offerings.
Option C is incorrect. Cloud provider is responsible for patching the Operating System for their SaaS offerings.
Option D is incorrect. FSaaS is not a valid Cloud Computing model.
Q 5. A startup working on self-driving vehicles applications requires to collect data from vehicles on-road.
Which offering from Cloud providers will help the organization transmit the data from vehicles currently on-road for data collection?

Machine Learning product offering
IoT product offering
Data Analytics product offering
Storage product offering
Correct Answer: B

Option A is incorrect. Machine learning product offerings from Cloud providers enable organizations to build, deploy and scale the AI models.
Option B is correct. IoT offerings from Cloud providers help in data collection from the field, like collecting data from sensors including self-driving vehicles, farmlands, satellites etc.
Option C is incorrect. Data Analytics offerings from Cloud providers help unlock big data potential by improving data analysis capabilities and eventually improving businesses’ decision-making.
Option D is incorrect. Storage product offerings from Cloud providers help facilitate storing of the data of various data types.
General Google Cloud Knowledge
This gives you a brief overview of Google cloud and its technology. It includes locating current Google cloud requirements, creating a consumption based model, and defining its geographical segmentation strategy such as regions, zones,& multi regional resources. Evaluate your understanding by checking the below mentioned related questions.

Q 6. Which of the Google cloud offerings for Virtual Machine offers block storage that is reliable and high performance ?
Preemptible VMs
Cloud storage for Firebase
Local SSD
Persistent Disk
Correct Answer: D

Option A is Incorrect. Preemptible VMs are compute instances that are short-lived and are appropriate to be used for batch jobs.
Option B is Incorrect. Cloud storage for Firebase stores and serves content that is user generated on block storage.
Option C is Incorrect. Local SSD also offers high performance block storage but is attached locally.
Option D is Correct. Persistent disk from Google Cloud offers block storage that is reliable and high performance for Virtual Machines.
Q 7. Which of the below could be implemented for fine-grained management and cost allocation using organizations in Google cloud?
Billing access control 
Quotas
Resource hierarchy
Budgets
Correct Answer: C

Option A is Incorrect. Billing access control helps to enforce organizational policies at various levels in the resource hierarchy.
Option B is Incorrect. Quotas help to control the spending and unforeseen usage spikes proactively.
Option C is Correct. Resource hierarchy should be implemented for fine-grained management and cost allocation using organizations in Google cloud.
Option D is Incorrect. Budgets are most useful in performing the monitoring of the costs being incurred on google cloud.
Q 8. A crowdsourcing platform is looking forward to hosting its applications and services on Google Cloud. Before onboarding the applications and services on Google Cloud, they have expressed an intention to estimate the total cost that they will incur for running their workload on Google Cloud.
What would you suggest to them for getting this estimation immediately?

Browse Pricing list for Individual service
Use Pricing Calculator
Contact Google Support
Contact Your Google Account Manager
Correct Answer: B

Option A is incorrect. This option requires manual effort. Hence, this is not a good choice provided that Google provides a “Pricing Calculator”.
Option B is correct. This is the best way to get the estimation. Google pricing calculator is free of cost and can be accessed by anyone.
Option C is incorrect. Yes, this is an option provided by Google. However, a pricing calculator will be a good choice as it will give the estimate immediately. Hence, it is a better option to choose.
Option D is incorrect. Google Account Manager contact is available only with certain Google Support plans. Since the scenario does not mention if the customer has a Google Support plan, this option is not correct.
Q 9. You are working on designing a solution that requires you to build an application that has disaster recovery capability and can withstand the loss of an entire region. 
Identify the strategy that is not suitable for implementing this solution.

Use multiregional storage services.
Use a zonal resource, but snapshot data to a multiregional resource.
Use a zonal resource but manage own data replication to other regions as required.
Use a managed zonal resource.
Correct Answer: D

Option A is incorrect. Since you are using multiregional storage services, the application can withstand the loss of an entire r egion.
Option B is incorrect. Since you are taking a snapshot of data to a multiregional resource, the application can withstand the loss of an entire region.
Option C is incorrect. Although zonal resources are being used, data replication is being done to other regions. The application can withstand the loss of an entire region.
Option D is correct. Using “zonal resources only” will not be ideal as the application, in this case, will not be able to sustain regional failure.
Q 10. Which of the below defines a Region appropriately?
Collection of Data Centers is Region.
There is One Zone per Region.
Collection of Zones is Region.
There is One Data Center per Region.
Correct Answer: C

Option A is incorrect. Regions consist of Zones, and Zones consist of Data Centers.
Option B is incorrect. A Region can have multiple Zones.
Option C is correct. This statement correctly defines a Region.
Option D is incorrect. A Region comprises one or more Zones. Regions consist of Zones, and Zones consist of Data Centers.
Q 11. Which of the below statements about Google Cloud resources is CORRECT?
Static external IP addresses are Zone specific resources.
Disk snapshots are Region-specific resources.
Any Google Cloud resource that is being used, must necessarily belong to a project.
VM instances are Global.
Correct Answer: C

Option A is incorrect. Static external IP addresses are Regional, not Zone-specific.
Option B is incorrect. Disk snapshots are Global, not Region-specific.
Option C is correct. This is a correct statement. All the Google Cloud resources that are being used must necessarily belong to a project.
Option D is incorrect. VM instances are Zonal, not Global resources.
Q 12. A new team member has joined your project. You need to grant him permission to access a few Google Cloud resources through IAM.
How can you grant permission to your new team member so that he can access the required Google Cloud resources?
Directly grant the permissions to access the resources as required.
Grant role to the team member to access the resources as required.
Grant IAM policy to the team member to access the resources as required.
Give pre-authenticated URLs so that the new team member can access the required resources.
Correct Answer: B

Option A is incorrect. In IAM, permissions are not granted directly to the team member to access resources.
Option B is correct. The permissions are grouped into roles, and roles can be granted to the team member to access the resources.
Option C is incorrect. This is an incorrect statement. IAM policy is attached to resources, defines and enforces what roles are granted to which members and the policy.
Option D is incorrect. Pre-authenticated URLs are not a valid option to provide access to the resources.
Q 13. How many parent(s) can one resource have?
1
2
3
Depends on the resource type
Correct Answer: A

Option A is correct. Each resource has exactly one parent.
Option B is incorrect. Each resource has exactly one parent.
Option C is incorrect. Each resource has exactly one parent.
Option D is incorrect. Each resource has exactly one parent and does not depend on the resource type.
Q 14. Your organization has opted for an Enhanced support offering. You have created a support case. The current status of the support case is “In progress Google engineering”.
What does support case status of “In progress Google engineering” mean?
The case is assigned to one of Google’s cloud engineers.
The support case is being worked upon by Google Cloud Customer care engineers.
The support case is being investigated by Google product engineers.
The support case is being investigated by another Google engineer team.
Correct Answer: C

Option A is incorrect. When the case is assigned to one of Google cloud engineers, the status of the support case is “Assigned”.
Option B is incorrect. When the support case is being worked upon by Google Cloud Customer care engineers, the status of the support case is “In progress Cloud Customer Care”.
Option C is correct. When the support case is being investigated by Google product engineers, the status of the support case is “In progress Google engineering”.
Option D is incorrect. When the support case is being investigated by another Google engineer team, the status of the support case is “In progress Google other.”
Q 15. While creating a Support Case and describing the issue, which of the below problem types would you select for ‘momentary problems’?
Intermittent,
Transient,
Consistent,
Recurring
Correct Answer: B

Option A is incorrect. Intermittent problems occur randomly without a regular failure pattern.
Option B is correct. For momentary problems, the appropriate problem type is Transient.
Option C is incorrect. Consistent problems are problems that fail completely.
Option D is incorrect. Recurring is an invalid problem type.
Google Products & Services
This is specific to various offerings of Google Cloud services and how they interact with each other. This is the most important part of the cloud digital leader exam. It describes the benefits of Google cloud virtual machine (VM) based compute options. The considerations include custom versus standard sizes, attached storage disk options, and preetimble VMs.

Q 16. You are implementing security for and plan to store API keys and certificates used across your Google cloud.
Which of the below will you plan to use?
Secret Manager
Cloud Key Management
Security command center
A & B
Correct Answer: A

Option A is Correct. A secret manager can be used to store API keys, passwords, and certificates.
Option B is Incorrect. Cloud Key Management helps manage encryption keys and cannot be used for storing API keys and certificates.
Option C is Incorrect. The security command center cannot be used for storing API keys and certificates, but it is appropriate to be used to defend Google cloud assets against threats.
Option D is Incorrect. Cloud Key management is an incorrect option.
Q 17. Your client, a newly set up startup company, wants to opt for the cheapest customer care support plan that provides phone support for billing issues.
Which support plan would you suggest to your client ensuring that the proposed plan is the most cost-efficient?
Basic Support
Standard Support
Enhanced Support
Premium Support
Correct Answer: A

Option A is correct. Basic support from Google Cloud provides phone support for billing issues only along with case and chat support. Basic support is included with Google Cloud subscription, and there are no additional charges. Hence, this is the correct choice.
Option B is incorrect. Although Standard support provides phone support for billing issues, it’s an incorrect choice since it is a paid plan. The scenario wants us to identify the most cost-efficient support plan.
Option C is incorrect. Although Enhanced support provides phone support for billing issues, it’s an incorrect choice since it is a paid plan. The scenario wants us to identify the most cost-efficient support plan.
Option D is incorrect. Although Premium support provides phone support for billing issues, it’s an incorrect choice since it is a paid plan. The scenario wants us to identify the most cost-efficient support plan.
Q 18. Which of the below disk types is not backed by Solid State Drives (SSD)?
Standard persistent disks (pd-standard)
Balanced persistent disks (pd-balanced)
SSD persistent disks (pd-ssd)
Extreme persistent disks (pd-extreme)
Correct Answer: A

Option A is correct. Standard persistent disks (pd-standard) are backed by HDD (standard Hard Disk Drive). Hence, this option is Correct.
Option B is incorrect. Balanced persistent disks (pd-balanced) are backed by solid-state drives (SSD).
Option C is incorrect. SSD persistent disks (pd-ssd) are backed by solid-state drives (SSD).
Option D is incorrect. Extreme persistent disks (pd-extreme) are backed by solid-state drives (SSD).
Q 19. As part of your workload, a VM instance runs a SQL server, and another VM is being used as a license manager. Given the criticality of SQL Server and license manager, you need to ensure that these instances run indefinitely and do not get deleted.
How can these VMs be protected from deletion?
Enable “delete protection” feature.
Enable “no delete” feature.
Enable “restrict delete” feature.
Enable “run continuous” feature.
Correct Answer: A

Option A is correct. To protect the VMs from being deleted, the “delete protection” feature needs to be enabled.
Option B is incorrect. The “no delete” feature is an invalid option.
Option C is incorrect. The “restrict delete” feature is an invalid option.
Option D is incorrect. The “run continuous” feature is an invalid option.
Q 20. Which of the resources listed below is an ideal choice for a Persistent Disk snapshot?
(Choose 2)

Single disk backup
Differential backup 
Multiple disk backup
VM Instance configuration
Instance cloning and replication
Correct Answers: A and B

Option A is correct. Please refer to the picture below for details.
Option B is correct. Please refer to the picture below for details.
Option C is incorrect. Please refer to the picture below for details.
Option D is incorrect. Please refer to the picture below for details.
Option E is incorrect. Please refer to the picture below for details.
Q 21. Which Google Cloud product would be best suited to serve as a metadata inventory service, enabling customers to have a view of all the GCP and Anthos assets across projects and services?
Access Transparency & Access Approval
Binary Authorization
Cloud Asset Inventory
Confidential Computing
Correct Answer: C

Option A is incorrect. Access Transparency & Access Approval help provide visibility and control by facilitating admin access logs and approval controls.
Option B is incorrect. Binary Authorization helps ensure deployment of trusted container images on Google Kubernetes Engine (GKE) or Cloud Run.
Option C is correct. Cloud Asset Inventory is a metadata inventory service that facilitates customers to have a view of all the GCP and Anthos assets across projects and services, along with enabling them to monitor and analyze all the GCP and Anthos assets across projects and services.
Option D is incorrect. Confidential Computing helps customers encrypt sensitive data while the data is in-use.
Q 22. Which Google Cloud AI product helps classify unstructured text and sentiment analysis?
Vertex AI
Cloud Translation
Natural Language AI
Dialogflow
Correct Answer: C

Option A is incorrect. Vertex AI helps build, deploy and scale ML models faster within a unified AI platform.
Option B is incorrect. Cloud Translation helps build multilingual applications with the help of machine translation.
Option C is correct. Natural Language AI is a Google Cloud AI product that helps classify unstructured text and performs sentiment analysis.
Option D is incorrect. Dialog flow helps build conversational applications.
Q 23. To ensure the developers’ code functionality in “Event-Driven Serverless Functions”, which Google Cloud product should a customer opt for?
Cloud Functions
Cloud Serverless
Anthos Cluster
Cloud Foundation toolkit
Correct Answer: A

Option A is correct. Cloud Functions help develop Event-Based serverless Functions.
Option B is incorrect. Cloud Serverless is an invalid option.
Option C is incorrect. Anthos Cluster helps utilize Kubernetes across Multi-Cloud and Hybrid cloud environments.
Option D is incorrect. Cloud foundation toolkit helps provide Infrastructure as a code template
Q 24. Which Google Cloud product helps customers
Search and analyze log files through query statements?
Use Public Write APIs to write custom logs from on-premise?
Set alerts for notifying when a specific message appears in logs?
Cloud Logging
Cloud Debugger
Cloud Trace
Cloud Monitoring
Correct Answer: A

Option A is correct. Cloud Logging helps in the real-time analysis and management of logs.
Option B is incorrect. Cloud Debugger helps in the investigation of code’s behavior in production.
Option C is incorrect. Cloud Trace helps identify bottlenecks in production.
Option D is incorrect. Cloud Monitoring facilitates the collection of metrics, creating visualizations for metrics pertaining to applications and Infrastructure’s availability, performance, and health.
Whizlabs practice tests for Google Digital cloud leader are considered best in the industry. If you want to have a detailed understanding of your preparedness for the GCP Cloud leader exam. Try our practice tests today.

Q 25. Which of the below features of Pub/Sub allows offline examination and debugging of messages to ensure no-delay processing of other messages?
Exactly once processing
Seek and replay
Dead Letter topics
Filtering
Correct Answer: C

Option A is Incorrect. Exactly once processing ensures that the Pub/Sub stream is processed exactly once.
Option B is Incorrect. The seek and replay feature of Pub/Sub can reprocess messages by facilitating point-in-time rewind of backlog.
Option C is Correct. It allows offline examination and debugging of messages to ensure no-delay processing of other messages.
Option D is Incorrect. Filtering enables message filtering based on message attributes.
References  

https://workspace.google.com/
https://cloud.google.com
Domain : Infrastructure and Application Modernization with Google Cloud
Q26 : Which of the below-listed use cases should Local SSD be used for?
A. Genome sequencing
B. Media rendering
C. Data archiving
D. Use as cache
E. Batch Jobs

Correct Answers: B and D

Explanation

Option A is Incorrect. Since Genome sequencing requires performing analysis and needs speed, scalabiity and security, filestore is most apt.
Option B is Correct. Local SSD is appropriate to be used for Media rendering.
Option C is Incorrect. Cold storage is most optimal for data archiving.
Option D is Correct. Local SSD is the most optimal choice for being used as a cache as it provides high IOPS and very low latency.
Option E is Incorrect. Preemptible VMs are appropriate for batch jobs.

References:  https://cloud.google.com/filestore, https://cloud.google.com/storage/archival, https://cloud.google.com/local-ssd, https://cloud.google.com/preemptible-vms

 

Domain : Infrastructure and Application Modernization with Google Cloud
Q27 : An issue is reported in the code deployed in the production environment. To diagnose the issue, your developer requires injecting a new logging statement and taking a snapshot of the state of running the application.
How can this be done?
A. Cloud Logging
B. Cloud Monitoring
C. Cloud Trace
D. Cloud Debugger

Correct Answer: D

Explanation

Option A is Incorrect. Cloud logging helps in real-time management and analysis of logs.
Option B is Incorrect. Cloud Monitoring helps to monitor the health, availability and performance of infrastructure and the configured application by producing metrics of help.
Option C is Incorrect. Cloud Trace is an offering from Google cloud that helps find production performance bottlenecks by collecting application’s latency data.
Option D is Correct. Cloud Debugger helps to investigate the behavior of code in production.

References: https://cloud.google.com/logging, https://cloud.google.com/monitoring,  https://cloud.google.com/trace,  https://cloud.google.com/debugger

 

Domain : Infrastructure and Application Modernization with Google Cloud
Q28 : Which of the below-listed ways cannot be used to connect to the services and resources hosted in the Google Cloud platform?
A. Cloud SDK
B. Cloud Shell
C. Google Cloud Console
D. Google Management Console

Correct Answer: D

Explanation

There are three basic ways to interact and connect with the services and resources hosted in Google Cloud Platform.

Google Cloud Console
Command Line Interface (includes Cloud SDK and Cloud Shell)
Client Libraries
“Google Management Console” is an invalid option.

Option A is incorrect as Cloud SDK is an excellent way to interact and connect with the services and resources hosted in the Google Cloud Platform.
Option B is incorrect as Cloud Shell is an excellent way to interact and connect with the services and resources hosted in the Google Cloud Platform.
Option C is incorrect as Google Cloud Console is an excellent way to interact and connect with the services and resources hosted in the Google Cloud Platform.
Option D is correct as “Google Management Console” is an invalid option.

Reference: https://cloud.google.com/docs/overview#ways_to_interact_with_the_services

 

Domain : Introduction to Digital Transformation with Google Cloud
Q29 : You are asked to deploy applications so that they are fault-tolerant and highly available. Since the customers are based only in India, you plan to use only one region.
Which deployment area within a region would you use to deploy the applications?
A. Zone
B. Datacenter
C. Sub-Region
D. Datazone

Correct Answer: A

Explanation

Option A is correct. Zones are a deployment area within a region, and Zones can be utilized for deploying applications in a way that they are fault-tolerant and highly available.
Option B is incorrect. If an application is deployed in a particular data center, and the data center is impacted by, say power failure or some calamity, the application would also go down. Hence, opting for a data center would not be the right choice.
Option C is incorrect. Sub-Region is an invalid option.
Option D is incorrect. Datazone is an invalid option.

Reference: https://cloud.google.com/docs/geography-and-regions#regions_and_zones

 

Domain : Infrastructure and Application Modernization with Google Cloud
Q30 : You are working on implementing a solution that requires you to use a scalable, no-maintenance and serverless document database.
Which of the below Google Cloud products would you use?
A. Firestore
B. Cloud Spanner
C. Memorystore
D. Cloud Bigtable

Correct Answer: A

Explanation

Option A is correct. Firestore is a Google product that is scalable, requires no maintenance, and it is a serverless document database.
Option B is incorrect. Cloud Spanner is incorrect because it is a relational database service, not a document database.
Option C is incorrect. Memorystore, also known as Memorystore for Redis, is a fully managed Google’s in-memory data store service.
Option D is incorrect. Cloud Bigtable is a big data database service, not a document database.

References: https://cloud.google.com/firestore, https://cloud.google.com/spanner/docs, https://cloud.google.com/memorystore/docs/redis, https://cloud.google.com/bigtable/docs